#summary Getting started in Blacklight with the binary distribution of Solrmarc.
#labels Phase-Deploy

=== About This Document ===

This getting started guide describes the SolrMarc binary distribution for Blacklight, defines its software dependencies, guides the user through using the SolrMarc binary to index a file of MARC records.

<br/>
=== About !SolrMarc ===

SolrMarc is a utility that reads in MARC records from a file, extracts information from various fields as specified in an indexing configuration script, and adds that information to a specified SOLR index.

SolrMarc provides a rich set of techniques for mapping the tags, fields, and subfields contained in the MARC record to the fields you wish to include in your SOLR index record, but it also allows the creation of custom index functions if you cannot achieve what you require using the predefined mapping techniques.

Currently, SolrMarc is configured to work with:
  * [http://blacklightopac.org/ Blacklight]
  * [VufindHowTo Vufind]


NOTE: If you anticipate a need for custom indexing functions, you will need to download the SolrMarc source code and build the package using the instructions from the [GettingStarted] document on this wiki.

<br />
=== Software Dependencies ===

SolrMarc requires the java runtime environment (JRE) version 1.5 or newer (or version 1.5 or newer of the java development kit (JDK).)

To check the version of your installed java at the command prompt type:

   _java -version_

To download the proper version of the java, go to http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp

<br/>
=== Downloading the !SolrMarc Binary Distribution ===

To get the binary distribution, download {{{Binary_Vanilla_Blacklight_SolrMarc_Unix.tar.gz}}} or {{{Binary_Vanilla_Blacklight_SolrMarc_PC.zip}}} from [http://code.google.com/p/solrmarc/downloads/list the project's downloads page]. The binary distribution consists of a single large jar file containing all of the code, libraries and data files to configure and run SolrMarc.

The only difference between the two binary distributions is that the Unix version contains a number of bash shell scripts for running the !SolrMarc indexer or for running the the other utility programs associated with running !SolrMarc, whereas the PC version of the binary distribution contain batch files to perform the same tasks. 

<br />
=== Unpacking the Binary Distribution ===

Create a directory and copy the solrmarc distribution you just made into it. You can do this anywhere, but for this example let's create a directory called {{{indexer}}} at the top level of your blacklight directory. Now unzip the distribution file. On unix, the command is {{{tar zxvf Binary_Vanilla_Blacklight_SolrMarc_Unix.tar.gz}}}. On windows, you can run winzip or some similar program. 

<br/>
=== Configuring !SolrMarc ===

SolrMarc uses a series of Java properties files for its configuration, and these are stored inside the single large jar file that is included in the binary distribution. Some of the values in these properties files need to be set before you will be able to run SolrMarc to produce an index for your Blacklight installation. 

If you unpack the binary distribution into a directory named {{{indexer}}} inside the Blacklight demo distribution, all you need to do is run two shell scripts to configure the SolrMarc indexer. 

First run: 
   indexer/setsolrwar ./jetty/webapps/solr.war 

then run: 

   indexer/setsolrhome ./jetty/solr

=== Running !SolrMarc ===

You will then be ready index MARC record into the solr index that will be used by your implementation of Blacklight via the following command: 

   indexer/indexfile /path/to/marcrecords.mrc 

The command will display informational messages and warnings while it is running, processing MARC records. 

To index the sample record included in the Blacklight demo distribution in the data directory use the following commands:

   indexer/indexfile ./data/test_data.utf8.mrc
   indexer/indexfile ./data/lc_records.utf8.mrc

or to index both at one time:

   cat ./data/*.mrc | indexer/indexfile

